Once upon a time years and years ago in Baghdad there lived a porter called
Sinbad. As he was passing a palace one day, he saw a bench in the great 
doorway and thought he would rest on it. So he put down his load, and was 
about to sit down when curiosity got the better of him and, slipping through 
the entrance he went into the gardens. To Sinbad it was like heaven.
   Everywhere there were flower beds, gushing fountains and palm trees, in 
whose shade many gentlemen were strolling. while pages served them with cakes
and drinks. Sinbad couldn't help exclaiming aloud:
   "Well I never! Here I am, worked to the bone, poor and always hungry while 
other lucky men never carry burdens, but enjoy good food and drink. And yet, 
we're all Allah's sons! What a world of difference between me and the people 
who live here." Sinbad had barely stopped speaking when one of the pages came 
across to him and said:
   "Come with me. My master wishes to speak to you." Rather alarmed, Sinbad 
followed the lad into a hall where the owner of the house was seated amongst 
his guests.
   "Come in," he said. "What's your name?"
   "Sinbad, the Porter."
   "My name is Sinbad too. Sinbad the Sailor. I hear you've been complaining, 
but I'd like you to know that I became rich only by working hard and taking 
dreadful risks. All this during seven amazing but adventurous voyages. I 
haven't had an easy life, you know. Sit down and I'll tell you my story."
   "My father," began Sinbad the Sailor, "was a merchant. When he died, he 
left me a fortune. I was young then and foolish, and I started to squander my 
riches until one day, I discovered my money had gone. I didn't lose heart, 
however, for I decided to become a merchant like my father. With the money I 
earned from selling my furniture and carpets I bought all the goods I could 
and set out. I boarded a ship at Bassora with other traders and began to trade
in every port. One day, the captain dropped anchor near a beautiful island and
we went ashore. We had hardly lit the fires to cook our meal when the captain 
suddenly shouted;
   'Quick! Get away! This is no island. It's a huge fish that's been sleeping 
on the waves so long that trees have grown on it. The heat from the fires is 
wakening it. It will dive to the deep any minute now. Back to the ship! Drop 
everything!'
   Many managed to climb aboard again, but I was too far away and ended up in 
the sea. Luckily I found a floating empty barrel. Clinging to this and 
drifting with the winds and currents, I reached an island. As I came ashore, I
saw a mare tethered to a stump. Then a man appeared and asked me:
   'Who are you? Where have you come from?'
   'I've been shipwrecked,' I said. The man went on:
   'Follow me,' he said and took me to a cave, where he offered me some food. 
I told him of my adventure and he listened in amazement. I was dying to know 
why he kept his horse tethered at the shore.
   'I used to be one of King Mihragian's grooms' he replied. 'When the moon is
full, we tether the mares on the beach so they can meet with the sea horses. 
The foals that are born are so beautiful there are none like them in the whole
world. This is the time of the new moon and the sea stallions arrive. When 
it's all over, I'll take you to the king. You're very lucky, you know, for 
you'd have died of hunger on this desert island if you hadn't met me.'
   My rescuer introduced me to his friends and they gave me a friendly 
welcome. Later, back in the city the grooms told the king about my adventure.
   'It was Allah's will that you should be saved,' the ruler told me after 
listening carefully. 'It's your destiny to live a long life.' Because he felt 
I was under the protection of Allah himself, he showered me with gifts and 
favours. I was appointed harbourmaster; it was my job to keep a register of 
all freight in transit and so I found myself in an excellent post.
   Just the same, I felt homesick, and every time a ship came in, I asked the 
captain if he was bound for Baghdad, for I intended to ask him for a passage 
home. One day, however, as I took a note of the cargo on a ship that had just 
tied up, I asked:
   'Anything else on board?'
   'Yes,' replied the captain. 'There's still a certain quantity of goods 
aboard. The owner was lost at sea and must have drowned. I'm going to see if I
can sell them and take the money back to his family in Baghdad.'
   'What was the name of the man who was lost?' I enquired.
   'Sinbad the Sailor.' I let out a shout.
   'I am Sinbad the Sailor! I clung to a barrel that saved my life and drifted
ashore on an island. There, thanks be to Allah, I met the royal grooms. And it
was the king himself who made me harbourmaster. The goods you're carrying on 
board your ship belong to me.'
   'Well, what a story! I've never heard anything like it!' exclaimed the 
captain. 'Isn't there an honest soul left in the world?'
   'Captain!' I gasped. 'Why won't you believe what I say?'
   'Because it's perfectly obvious,' he replied, 'that you heard the trader 
had drowned and now, by inventing a ridiculous adventure, you hope to lay 
hands on his property!' At that point, I described to the captain every single
thing that had taken place on board his ship since the moment it had weighed 
anchor. He was forced to believe I was telling the truth.
   'Good gracious!' everyone gasped. 'We certainly never dreamt that you were 
safe and sound.'
   I got my trading goods back and immediately thought of something precious 
to give to the king. He was astounded at what had happened, but everyone 
assured him that every word was true. He too gave me a gift and allowed me to 
leave with all my belongings. I went aboard. Some days later, I was at 
Bassora and then back to Baghdad. I had grown far richer than before and 
quickly forgot all my past suffering."
   When Sinbad the Sailor had ended his tale, he gave Sinbad the Porter three 
gold coins and told him to return the next day.
   The following day, after providing the porter and the other guests with a 
delicious meal, Sinbad the Sailor again began to speak.
   "One day, I again had a great desire to travel. I decided to invest some of
my money in trading goods and went on board ship at Bassora for my second 
voyage. To begin with, it was a pleasant journey. Then one day, we reached a 
strange desert island. Many of the passengers decided to go ashore and I sat 
down on the bank of a river and fell fast asleep. When I awoke there was not a
soul in sight. The ship had sailed, for the captain had forgot all about me.
   However, I decided to climb a tree and survey the island. It was then that 
I discovered a great white dome.
   Full of hope, I marched in the direction of the dome. but as I drew near, I
realised it had no doors. The sun had not yet set and the sky was a fiery 
pink. Suddenly, everything went dark, as though night had fallen. I looked up 
and saw an enormous bird with outstretch wings, shutting out the sunlight. I 
remembered then of hearing about a bird so huge it fed its nestlings 
elephants. The bird's name was Rukh. Just then I realised that the dome was 
really one of Rukh's eggs. Indeed, the great bird settled on top of the egg 
and dropped of t6o sleep. I unwound my turban and twisted it to make a rope. I
tied the end of it round the bird's leg so that it would carry me away with 
it. At the first light of dawn, the bird woke, spread its immense wings and 
took flight. So high did it rise into the sky that the earth almost vanished 
from sight, but it landed on a plateau. I undid the knot. Rukh floated down
into the valley below and when he returned, it was with a large snake in his 
beak. Nobody lived on this plateau and, on the other side of the valley lay a 
mountain far too high for anyone ever to climb.
   All I could do was clamber down into the valley. When I got there, I saw 
the ground was littered with diamonds and full of terrible snakes. I couldn't 
help shuddering. Luckily, the snakes were not moving about that day, for fear 
of Rukh, but darkness was about to fall. I found a cave and blocked the 
entrance with a rock.
   In the morning, I left the cave and started to roam the valley searching 
for a way out. Suddenly I came upon the carcass of an animal. Just then I 
remembered once hearing the story of a doomed valley, into which diamond 
hunters would throw a large dead animal. The precious gems stuck to the 
carcass and the hunters would then wait for a vulture or eagle to appear. The 
bird of prey would swoop down on the meat and carry it away in its talons to 
the plateau above. There, the diamond hunters, shouting and yelling, forced 
the bird to give up its prey. With this tale in mind, I filled my pockets with
diamonds then roped myself to the dead animal.
   A little later, a huge eagle carried the carcass and me to the plateau. It 
was just about to tear into the flesh with its beak, when some men appeared, 
shouting loudly. The eagle flapped away and, though my clothes were 
bloodstained, I was alive!
   I told the diamond hunters about my adventure and gave some diamonds to the
man who had thrown the carcass into the valley. They all told me I was under 
Allah's own protection. I had come out alive from the valley of the snakes; 
something nobody else had ever done before. Next day, I set off homewards. I 
bartered some of the diamonds for goods to sell and became richer than ever. 
When I arrived in Baghdad, my friends and relations welcomed me with delight 
and, again forgetting all my trials and troubles, I went back to an easy life.
And that's the tale of my second voyage.
   I'll tell you about the third tomorrow. It's time to eat now," ended Sinbad
the Sailor.
   Sinbad the bearer of burdens had, like all those present, listened 
wide-eyed to this story, and again that evening, he found himself gifted 
another three gold coins. Of course, next day, he hurried back to the sailor's
home. He sat at his side till the rich man's friends came, then they sat down 
to a cheerful feast. When the meal was over, Sinbad the Sailor told the tale 
of his third voyage.
   "Rich as I was, I wanted to become even richer. So I got a passage again at
Bassora, on a fine vessel, together with other merchants.
   One day, we ran into a fierce storm and the captain began to cry:
   'The ship is out of control! The sails are in tatters! Let's hope we can 
find shelter in the lee of Monkey Mountain. Though the monkeys are dangerous
beasts!`